vi
Vi is an extremely powerful
text editor,
capable of blazing speed especially when
it comes to automating repetitive tasks.
However,
it has a relatively steep
learning curve
and is nowhere near as simple
to use as Nano.
Due to its complexity, we will only
cover the very basics here.
As with nano, to edit a file, simply
pass its name as an argument to vi.
Once the file is opened, enable
insert-text mode to begin typing.
To do this, press the “i” key and
start typing away.
To disable insert-text mode and go
back to command mode,
press the Escape key.
While in command mode, use dd to
delete the current line.
Press yy to copy the current line…
And press p to paste the
clipboard contents.
To delete the current character under
the cursor, press the x key.
To write the current file to disk and
remain in vi, type colon-w.
Type colon-q
follwed by an exclamation mark to quit
without writing the file to disk.
To quickly save the file and quit vi,
enter :wq!.
Because vi seems so awkward to use,
many users avoid it.
However, from a penetration tester’s
point of view,
vi can save a great deal of time in
the hands of an experienced user,
and is installed on every
POSIX-compliant system.